
        -->
 -->
-->
 LIRS – FAQS 
0700-2255-5477
info@lirs.net
											Follow us on
 Locate Us
Tax Information
Tax Types
Personal income tax
Pay as you earn
Direct assessment
-->
Tax System
System of Tax
Tax Administration
Tax Statistics
Tax Collection
Lagos State Internal Revenue Service
Local Government
Federal Government
-->
Tax Legislations
Revenue Code
Agency Code
Registration Steps
NTAA
News
3 New
-->
Publications
FAQ
About Us
about
Gallery
Tax Stations
LIRS Service Charter
Grievance Redress Mechanism (GRM)
Contact Us
-->
Etax 
Calculate Tax
Calculate Tax
-->
Fiscalization for HORCT
EFS Documentation
-->
Self Assessment
-->
toggle menu
Tax Information
Tax Types
Personal income tax
Pay as you earn
Direct assessment
-->
Tax System
System of Tax
Tax Administration
Tax Statistics
Tax Collection
Lagos State Internal Revenue Service
Local Government
Federal Government
-->
Tax Legislations
Revenue Code
Agency Code
Registration Steps
NTAA
News
3 New
-->
Publications
FAQ
About Us
about
Gallery
Tax Stations
LIRS Service Charter
Grievance Redress Mechanism (GRM)
Contact Us
-->
Etax 
Calculate Tax
Calculate Tax
-->
Fiscalization for HORCT
EFS Documentation
-->
Self Assessment
-->
toggle menu
FAQ
-->
Home
FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions 
                            Frequently Asked Questions
-->
PayerID Creation 
ETCC 
Personal Income Tax (PIT) 
Religious Unit 
High Net Worth Individuals
Withholding Tax 
Legal Liabilities and Enforcement 
HORC Tax 
Annual Returns
Help Desk
Business Premises
Stamp Duty
Informal Sector
Tax Audit
Physical Planning
EFS HORC
How to create an Individual Taxpayer ID in Lagos State
1) Logon to https://e-Tax.lirs.net
2) Click on New User Sign Up.
3) Enter your BVN and Date of Birth.
4) Complete the form on the next page and submit.
5) Your Tax PayerID would be created and sent to you via e-mail and sms.
How to create a Corporate Tax PayerID in Lagos State.
1) Logon to https://e-Tax.lirs.net
2) Click on Create New Tax ID.
3) Click the drop down arrow to pick Corporate.
4) Enter your CAC Reg No. in this format XX123456.
5) Click on Proceed.
 On the next page, input the Company's Name, Email, Phone no., Address, LGA and LCDA, preferred tax station and business type.
                                                        A Director's Tax PayerID is needed to complete the registration.
                                                        BUSINESS PREMISES ADMINISTRATION IN LAGOS STATE
                                                        Business premises administration in Lagos State is governed by the Taxes and Levies Approved List for Collection Act 1998 (As amended)
                                                        The Act prescribes a business premises registration fee of:
                                                        (a)	Urban areas as defined by each State, maximum of:
                                                        (i)	N10,000 for registration.
                                                        (ii) N5,000 per annum for renewal of registration.
                                                        (b)	Rural areas:
                                                        (i)	N2,000 for registration.
                                                        (ii) N1,000 per annum for renewal of registration.
                                                        NOTE: Classification of urbanization or otherwise is as determined by the Lagos State Ministry of Finance. Kindly visit the website of the Lagos State Government website to determine the classification of the area of residence of your business location.
What is
                                                        e-TCC
It is the Electronic Tax Clearance Certificate, which
                                                            acknowledges the payment of tax.
Can
                                                        e-TCC be
                                                        issued to anyone?
No. e-TCC is issued only to individuals who have fulfilled
                                                            the
                                                            requirement of the Personal Income Tax Act.
How many
                                                        cards can I have at a time?
Every taxpayer is entitled to a single e-TCC which will be
                                                            renewed annually.
Where
                                                        and
                                                        how do I pay my taxes?
All payments (cash and cheques) should be made as must be
                                                            paid directly to any of the designated banks, while you can
                                                            obtain your tax receipt through the same bank
                                                        What will I have to show as evidence of tax payment?
                                                            Tax payment evidences are; Electronic Tax Clearance
                                                            Certificate issued by LIRS & Receipt of payment issued by
                                                            LIRS through Alpha Beta Consulting Ltd/p>
                                                        How long will it take to obtain e-TCC ?
 72 hours after payment
                                                        I lost my e-TCC?
                                                            You must pay # 1000.00 to LSBIR dedicated A/C to a Bank
                                                            branch nearest to you. Apply for a re-issuance of the lost
                                                            e-TCC to the LSBIR enclosing your LASRRA card
                                                        How much do I pay as processing fee, each time I obtain an
                                                        e-TCC?
There is no need to pay any amount of money as processing fee
                                                            before obtaining your Electronic Tax Clearance Certificate.
                                                            It
                                                            is free.
                                                        Under self Assessment do I need to pay any processing or bank
                                                        charge
                                                        at bank ?
 NO, you don’t have to pay any charge to process your e-TCC
                                                            at
                                                            any bank. The banks’ commission is paid by the State
                                                            Government
                                                            through LIRS.
What are our help desk numbers ?
UNIT
HELP DESK NUMBER
EMAIL
ETCC
08024788287
abc@lirs.net
HIGH NET WORTH
07017621787
highnetworth@lirs.net
PERSONAL INCOME TAX
08050231460
pitadmin@lirs.net
HOTEL OCCUPANCY
08036289087
horc@lirs.net
WITHOLDING TAX
08083848115
wht@lirs.net
RELIGIOUS
08023230663
religiousunit@lirs.net
DISTRAIN
08028588856
distrain@lirs.net
What is Personal Income Tax?
 Personal Income Tax is a tax imposed on the income of individuals, including income derived from employment, business, trade, profession, vocation, or investment activities. 
                                                        All payers of compensation, including employers of labour, are required to deduct the applicable tax from emoluments paid to employees, as well as from fees, commissions, dividends, 
                                                        rents, and similar payments made to vendors, agents, and other taxable persons, and remit the deductions to the Relevant Tax Authority on a monthly basis.
Individuals with investment or other non-employment income are required to file annual income tax returns and pay the assessed tax accordingly. Employers of labour must also file 
                                                        their annual returns of emoluments paid to their employees (Form H1) on or before 31 January of each year.
Who should pay Personal Income Tax?
 Pursuant to Section 24 (f) of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended) every Nigerian citizen is obligated to declare his/her income honestly and 
pay tax due
 therefrom to the relevant authorities. 
                                                        Thus, it is the constitutional obligation of every citizen (who earns income) to pay personal income tax. This rule also applies to individuals who are citizens of other countries but are resident in Nigeria.
However, for administrative convenience this obligation is broken down as under: 
a. Individual in Paid Employment -
 Any person who earns income in the form of salary, wage, fee, allowance or other gain or profit from employment including compensations, bonuses, premiums, benefits or other perquisites. 
                                                        The PAYE scheme requires employers to deduct the applicable income tax from such employment income at the point of payment and remit the deductions to the Relevant Tax Authority on or before the 10th day of the following month.
NOTE:
Such individuals in paid employment are also expected to declare all incomes from other sources such as rental income, investment income, etc. and pay tax due on them.
b. Self-employed Individual -
Any person who earns income in the form of gain or profit from any trade, business, profession or vocation, for whatever period of time such trade, business, profession or vocation may have been 
                                                        carried on or exercised. A self-employed individual is someone who works for themselves rather than employed by a company. They run their own business, trade or vocation and generate their income directly, they do not remit their taxes through 
                                                        PAYE or any employer.
What relief(s) can taxpayers enjoy?
Under the new tax regime, the erstwhile Consolidated Relief Allowance (CRA) has been replaced with a rent-based allowance and other eligible deductions.
Rent Relief: 20% of annual rent paid, subject to a maximum of N500,000
 deducted from taxable income.
What items constitute other eligible deductions?
Section 30(2) of the Nigeria Tax Act (NTA) 2025
a.	National Housing Fund Contributions.
b.	National Health Insurance Scheme Contributions.
c.	Pension Contributions under the Pension Reform Act.
d.	Interest on loans for developing an owner-occupied residential house
e.	Premium of Life Assurance for self and spouse
How do I know what rate to use in computing my taxes?
The 4th Schedule of the Nigeria Tax Act 2025 introduces a new graduated income tax table as follows:
• First ₦800,000 @ 0%
• Next ₦2,200,000 @ 15%
• Next ₦9,000,000 @ 18%
• Next ₦13,000,000 @ 21%
• Next ₦25,000,000 @ 23%
• Above ₦50,000,000 @ 25%
What category of taxes does LIRS collect?
TAXES COLLECTED BY LIRS
S/N
Tax Type
Description
1
Personal Income Tax (PIT):
(a) Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE)
Withholding tax on employees’ salaries, remitted monthly by employers (excluding members of the armed forces and police)
(b) Direct Assessment
Annual tax for self-employed individuals and professionals
2
Withholding Tax (State)
Withheld on payments for supply, services, rents, contracts, commissions, winnings etc., within Lagos State
3
Capital Gains Tax (State)
Tax on gains from sale of real and intangible assets (excluding stocks and shares)
4
Stamp Duties (State)
On instruments executed between individuals or entities within Lagos State
5
Economic Development Levy
Annual levy paid by businesses operating within Lagos State
6
Consumption Tax
5% tax on goods and services consumed at hotels, restaurants and event centres within Lagos State
7
Property Tax / Land Use Charge
Annual property tax combining ground rent, tenement rate, and neighbourhood improvement levy
Why is the amount of tax payable in Lagos State so high?
Taxes payable in Lagos State is not different from that of other States as all State Internal Revenue Authority operate under the same constitutional provisions and tax laws. Currently, 
                                                    the Nigeria Tax Act (NTA) and the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025 are the applicable laws governing personal income tax administration in Nigeria.
How do I confirm if taxes deducted from my monthly emoluments are remitted to the State Government?
For every tax remittance made on behalf of a taxpayer with a unique identifier (Payer-ID/TIN), a notification of remittance is sent to the phone number registered to the taxpayer. 
                                                        Also, remittance statements can be generated via the e-Tax platform.
What is the difference between PAYE (Pay-As-You-Earn) and Direct Assessment?
PAYE and Direct Assessment are two ways of assessing individuals to personal income tax. The PAYE system deals with taxing employment income, while Direct Assessment relates to 
                                                        taxing income from other sources other than employment income i.e. investment income, income from business (self-employment) etc. 
Can I use withholding taxes (WHT) deducted from one of my income sources to offset my personal income tax liability?
Yes, withholding tax is recognized as tax paid in advance (i.e. before filing of annual income tax returns) and can be set off against assessed tax liability while the taxpayer 
                                                        remits the tax differential. Where the total WHT credit exceeds the tax due, the excess may either be applied as a credit against future tax liabilities or refunded, in accordance 
                                                        with the provisions of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act 2025, subject to submission of supporting documentation.
What is Self-Assessment?
This refers to the tax system where taxable persons assess themselves to tax based on their earnings in a calendar year and make payment through the eTax platform or through any 
                                                        of the designated banks. It is a system of taxation backed by the constitutional provision of Section 24(f) of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended) and the Nigeria Tax 
                                                        Administration Act (NTAA) 2025.
It is important to note that tax paid under this system is 
not final
 as the relevant tax authority is the only statutory body empowered to, amongst other things, review returns 
                                                        filed by the taxable person, assess such taxable person to tax and determine adequacy of tax paid.
b. Can anyone who pays Self-Assessment continue to do so yearly?
Yes, since the self-assessment system has been prescribed by the Constitution (i.e. to file, declare income and pay tax due therefrom), it remains an integral part of tax administration in Nigeria.
However, it is essential to point out that self-assessment is not conclusive. Pursuant to Section 34(4) of the NTAA 2025, the tax authority is empowered to review the tax filing of the self-assessed 
                                                        individual to determine its adequacy. Upon review, if it has been observed that he/she has underpaid, the tax authority may raise an additional assessment on the income of the self-assessed individual. 
                                                        The tax authority may also acknowledge adequacy of the tax paid or an over payment by the taxable person under the self-assessment system. 
c. Can I file my returns and pay tax under Self-Assessment before the due date?
Yes. You are required to file returns and 
pay tax due
 in each year of assessment without notice or demand. This can be done by completing the Tax Form A on the e-tax platform and remitting the corresponding 
                                                        tax due through any of the in-app payment channels or at any branch of Lagos State Government designated revenue collecting banks. Note that, supporting documents must be uploaded for review to ascertain the 
                                                        correctness of the information provided and the adequacy of the tax paid.
What is the deadline for submitting annual returns?
 Pursuant to Section 14(1) of the NTAA 2025, every employer shall be required to file a return with the relevant tax authority on all emoluments paid to its employees, not later than 
31st January of every year
 in respect of all 
                                                        employees in its employment in the preceding year.
As for individuals, Section 13(1) mandates that every taxable person must file annual income tax returns to the relevant tax authority for each year of assessment without notice or demand.
Is there a penalty for failing to file my returns?
Yes, there are updated penalties under the NTAA 2025 for 
taxable persons
. Some of which are:
•	Failure to register for tax under section 4 of the NTAA, shall attract an administrative penalty of ₦50,000 in the first month in which the failure occurs and ₦25,000 for each subsequent month in which failure continues 
•	Failure to file tax returns or knowingly filing incomplete or inaccurate returns now attracts an administrative penalty of ₦100,000 for the first month of default and an additional ₦50,000 for each subsequent month until compliance.
•	Other Infractions:
-	Failure to keep proper records: N10,000 for individuals and N50,000 for companies. 
-	Failure to notify change of address: N100,000 for the first month and N5,000 for every additional month. 
- 	Failure to grant access for the deployment of technology: N1,000,000 for the first day of default and N10,000 daily thereafter. 
These penalties reflect the new tax administration framework aimed at enhancing compliance and enforcement of tax obligations in Nigeria.
NOTE: Taxable person
 refers to any 
person
 who carries out economic activity in a place or a person exploiting tangible or intangible property for the purpose of obtaining income therefrom by way of trade or business. 
Person
 includes individuals, body of individuals, executor, trustee, family, community, a company or body corporate, Government Agencies, corporation sole and any unincorporated body of persons, including a trust or any legal arrangement.
How can I obtain an Electronic Tax Clearance Certificate (e-TCC)?
You can apply for an Electronic Tax Clearance Certificate (e-TCC) 
at any time
 through the LIRS e-Tax platform at 
www.etax.lirs.net
To be eligible for an e-TCC, you must meet the following conditions:
•	Your e-Tax profile must include a 
recent passport photograph
 for identification.
•	You must have provided a 
complete residential address
 in your e-Tax profile.
•	You must have 
filed your annual income tax returns
 on the e-Tax platform for the last 
three years.
•	You must have obtained 
tax assessment
 from LIRS for the last 
three years
 and 
all tax liabilities must be fully paid.
Once all requirements are satisfied and payment is made, you can 
generate your e-TCC instantly
 on the eTax platform.
Who is an expatriate?
 An expatriate is a non-Nigerian citizen residing and/or working in Nigeria and who holds internationally issued identification or travel documents. Expatriates typically include executives, managers, technical experts, engineers, and other specialised personnel.
They may be assigned on short-term or long-term postings and are subject to Nigerian tax laws on income derived from employment, business, or services rendered in Nigeria, irrespective of their country of origin or employer's location.
How many days can I spend in Nigeria before my income becomes taxable?
 A foreign individual or an expatriate must spend an aggregate of 183days (in 12 calendar months) in Nigeria (inclusive of annual leave and temporary period of absence), in order for his income to be taxable.
However, two more conditions must be met for the income to be exempted from tax in Nigeria, these are:
i.	the duties in earning the income are performed on behalf of an entity who is in a country other than Nigeria and the remuneration is not borne by a fixed base in Nigeria; and
ii.	the income is liable to tax in another country under the provisions of the avoidance of double taxation treaty with that other country.
Updates to Individual Tax Residency (NTA 2025)
The 183-day rule remains unchanged, but the Act now includes:
•	Stricter enforcement through digital tracking and residency declarations.
•		Clearer definitions of temporary absence.
• 	Expanded scope for taxing global income of Nigerian residents.
Is tenement rate the same as land use charge i.e. Property Tax?
 In Lagos, the 
Land Use Charge (LUC)
 is a tax levied on property owners, combining three existing taxes into a single charge:
1.	
Tenement Rate: 
Previously collected by local governments.
2.	
Ground Rent: 
Charged by the State Government.
3.	
Neighborhood Improvement Charge:
 Related to infrastructure and services provided to the area.
Can I pay my taxes to any bank?
No, you have to identify designated banks approved by the State government which collect revenue on its behalf.
How many tax stations does LIRS have?
 LIRS currently has 39 Tax Stations and 40 Mini Tax Stations.
 What do I do if my employer is not remitting my deducted taxes?
You are expected to make a report immediately to LIRS through any of its official channels i.e. phone, email, or social media handles. 
                                                        In the alternative, a letter/petition may be written to the Executive Chairman.
Do I need to show proof of tax payment for all transactions with Lagos State?
 Yes. A proof of tax compliance is required for every transaction involving the State Government or any of its Agencies or Parastatals.
Do I have to pay tax as a Pensioner?
 Pensioners are liable to tax on income from other sources, however their PENSION INCOME is exempted from tax as provided for under Section 163(1) of the NTA.
I don't have any income; must I pay tax?
 No, income tax payment is a function of income. However, there must be adequate proof of lack of income which must be deemed satisfactory by the tax authority 
                                                        before any individual can be exempted from income tax.
Note that, non-payment of income tax does not preclude any citizen from filing annual income tax returns pursuant to 
Section 24(f) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) 
                                                        and Section 13 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
.
Do I pay tax on my gratuity?
 No, Section 163 (1)(i) of the Nigeria Tax Act (NTA) 2025 has exempted taxes on pension, gratuity or any retirement benefits granted in accordance with the Pension Reform Act.
What is the enabling law for personal income tax in Nigeria?
The enabling law for personal income tax in Nigeria was historically the 
Personal Income Tax Act (PITA), Cap P8 LFN 2004 (as amended)
. However, this has now been 
repealed and replaced
 by the 
Nigeria Tax Act (NTA), 2025
, which was signed into law on 
June 26, 2025
 and takes effect from 
January 1, 2026.
What is B.I.K?
 B.I.K is an acronym for Benefit-In-Kind and refers to taxable benefits an employee derives from holding certain positions of office. They are also called perquisites of office and include official car, 
                                                        official accommodation, domestic staff, etc.
                                                        Are Religious Organizations liable to taxes?
                                                            No. The third schedule (section 19 (1) 74) Item 12 to
                                                            Personal
                                                            Income Tax Act CAP P8 LFN 2004 as amended “exempts the
                                                            income of
                                                            any ecclesiastical, charitable or educational institution of
                                                            a
                                                            public character from taxation provided the income is not
                                                            derived from a trade or business carried on by such
                                                            institution”. The import of this provision is that incomes
                                                            of
                                                            the religious bodies from religious activities e.g. tithe,
                                                            offerings, donations, are not taxable. The following are
                                                            however
                                                            taxable:
 -   Income derived from business activities e.g. letting of
                                                            properties, transportation, production and sales of Journals
                                                            ,
                                                            Periodicals, Audio & Video CDs etc, where these activities
                                                            are
                                                            carried out in the name of a separate entity or for profit.
                                                            -   Where religious organisations’ funds are used to acquire
                                                            assets
                                                            i.e. motor vehicles, landed property etc. in a name
                                                            different
                                                            from that of the religious organisation or in the name of an
                                                            individual who is associated with the religious
                                                            organisation,
                                                            funds so expended become income in the hand of the
                                                            entity/individual and as such taxable.
                                                        What are the other tax obligations of Religious Organizations?
Pay as You Earn (PAYE): As employers of Labor, they are
                                                                required to deduct appropriate tax from the income of
                                                                their
                                                                employees and pay same to Lagos State Internal Revenue
                                                                Service on or before 10th of the following month through
                                                                any
                                                                designated Lagos State revenue collecting bank.
Withholding Tax: Whenever a Religious body pays an
                                                                individual or an unincorporated entity Rent, Royalty,
                                                                Management Fees, Consultancy Fees, Technical Service
                                                                Fees,
                                                                Agency Fees, Supplies and Contracts, appropriate
                                                                withholding
                                                                tax must be deducted and remitted to Lagos Internal
                                                                Revenue
                                                                Service through any of the designated Lagos State
                                                                revenue
                                                                collecting bank.
                                                    	I am a religious leader. Should I pay Personal Income Tax on 
                                                    monthly salary/allowance/financial donations I receive from the 
                                                    religious organization I work for or from other sources?
                                                        Yes.  Section 24(f) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic 
                                                        of Nigeria 1999 provides that “It shall be the duty of every citizen 
                                                        to declare his income honestly to the appropriate and lawful agencies
                                                        and pay his tax promptly”. In addition, you are required by section 
                                                        41(3) of Personal Income Tax Act CAP P8 LFN 2004 (as amended) to file 
                                                        annual returns of your income for assessment with the Lagos State Internal
                                                         Revenue Service (LIRS) and pay your tax on or before 31st of March of each
                                                          year. Your assessable income includes salaries from the religious 
                                                          organisation, income from private businesses and income from other sources.
                                                    	I serve my religious organization and I sometimes receive financial donations/allowances/gifts
                                                         within and outside the organization. Should I pay Personal Income Tax?
                                                        Yes. You will be assessed and taxed on the total financial income received from the above sources.
                                                    	Is this a new tax law or Lagos State Law?
                                                        No. It is not a new tax law or a Lagos State law. The Constitution of the 
                                                        Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 and Personal Income Tax Act cited above 
                                                        mandate the above tax obligations on religious organizations and their leaders.
What is the implication of not filing an income tax return?
Filing of annual returns is a constitutional obligation under 
Section 24(f)
 of the 
1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
, which requires every citizen to 
                                                        “declare his income honestly to appropriate and lawful agencies.” 
In addition, 
Section 101 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
 provides that any taxable person who fails or refuses to file tax returns, or knowingly submits incomplete or inaccurate 
                                                        returns is liable to an administrative penalty of 
₦100,000 for the first month of default
 and 
₦50,000 for each subsequent month
 the failure continues.
What happens if I make a false tax declaration?
Any taxable person who makes, signs, or delivers, or causes to be made, signed, or delivered, any declaration, notice, certificate, or other document for tax purposes that is 
false or untrue
 is liable to the penalties 
                                                        prescribed under 
Section 124 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
. The penalties, 
in addition to the amount of tax unpaid
, include: 
•	an 
administrative penalty of ₦1,000,000
; and
•	
a fine of ₦1,000,000 and imprisonment for up to 3 years
 upon conviction.
Is penalization of taxpayers immediate upon expiry of the filing deadline for failure to file annual returns and pay taxes?
Yes
. The penalties are 
applied immediately after the filing deadline elapses
. By virtue of 
Section 101 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, any taxable person who fails to file tax returns within the legally stipulated timeframe 
                                                        becomes liable to an administrative penalty of 
₦100,000 for the first month of default
 and 
₦50,000 for each subsequent month
 the failure continues.
What does it mean to be convicted for a tax offence?  
If a taxpayer is convicted for tax reasons, it means that a court of law has found them 
guilty beyond reasonable doubt
 of deliberately violating tax laws. 
                                                        This results in a 
criminal conviction
 (not a civil penalty) and carries serious legal, financial, and personal consequences.
Who is criminally liable for a tax offence committed by a body corporate?
Under 
Section 126 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, where an offence under the Act is committed by a 
body corporate, firm, trust, association of individuals, 
                                                        or any other legal arrangement
, the following persons may be 
proceeded against and punished
 as though they personally committed the offence:
•	a 
director, manager, secretary
, or any 
similar officer
 of the body corporate;
•	a 
partner
 or 
officer
 of the firm;
•	
trustees, settlors, beneficiaries
, or any person involved in the 
management
 of the trust;
•	any person involved in the 
management of the affairs
 of the association or legal arrangement; or
•	any person who 
acts or purports to act
 in any of the above capacities.
However, such a person will not be held liable if they can prove beyond reasonable doubt that the act or omission constituting the offence occurred 
without their knowledge, consent, or connivance
.
Is Distrain constitutional? 
Yes, it is. 
Section 44(2)(a & b)
 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria expressly provides that the right to acquire and own immovable property in Nigeria 
may be lawfully restricted
 for the purpose 
                                                        of 
imposing or enforcing any tax, rate, or penalty
, or for 
forfeiture
 resulting from a breach of the law.
This constitutional provision supports the legality of 
distrain
 as an enforcement mechanism for tax recovery.
When can the power of Distrain be exercised? 
The power of 
distrain
 can be exercised after all conditions precedent set out in 
Section 61 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
 have been satisfied. Distrain becomes exercisable where: 
 •	an 
assessment has become final and conclusive
, and
 •	a 
demand notice
 has been served on the person or company liable (or on the person/company in whose name the liability is chargeable), and 
 •	the tax remains 
unpaid within the time specified
 in the demand notice.
In such circumstances, the relevant tax authority may enforce payment of the tax due through distrain, using the prescribed form stated in the Act.
 What is the implication of a Pre-Action Protocol Notice?
A 
Pre-Action Protocol Notice
 is an administrative pre-action communication sent to a taxpayer to inform them of the Agency’s intention to proceed with enforcement 
                                                        measures (such as distrain) due to non-payment of tax liability.
The notice serves to:
•	alert the taxpayer of the outstanding liability, and
•	request immediate payment, failing which the Agency may lawfully commence enforcement or distrain actions in accordance with the law.
What should I do as an individual if I receive a Pre-Action Protocol Notice?
A 
Pre-Action Protocol Notice
 is a letter issued by the Legal Directorate of the LIRS indicating the intention to initiate tax debt recovery or to proceed with prosecution for non-compliance with extant statutory provisions.
Upon receiving such a notice, a taxpayer is advised to 
immediately make urgent representations to the Legal Directorate
 within the stipulated moratorium period, usually 
within 7 days of receipt
, in order to resolve the tax matter and avoid enforcement action.
What happens if I do not respond to the Pre-Action Protocol Notice?
LIRS will proceed to 
activate enforcement actions
 geared towards recovery of the tax debt, as provided under the relevant tax laws.
Can I send an objection letter when I have received a Pre-Action Protocol Notice?
No. Statutorily, by virtue of 
Section 41(2)(a)
 of the 
Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, a letter of objection must be served on 
                                                        the tax authority 
within 30 days of receiving the Notice of Assessment
, and not after receiving a Pre-Action Protocol Notice.
Accordingly, any objection raised at the stage of receiving a Pre-Action Protocol Notice 
cannot be valid
, as the 30-day objection window would have already elapsed before the issuance of the Pre-Action Protocol Notice.
What happens if I remove a non-compliance sticker stuck on my premise or prevent tax officials from performing their duties?
Anyone who removes a sticker, seal, padlock, or any other instrument affixed by the LIRS, or who otherwise obstructs tax officials in the performance of their duties, commits a 
criminal offence of obstruction
.
By virtue of 
Section 119(b) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, a person guilty of 
obstruction
 is liable to:
1.	an 
administrative penalty of ₦1,000,000
, and
2.	on conviction, a 
fine not exceeding ₦1,000,000
, or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years
, or 
both
.
What are other common tax penalties I should be aware of?
The 
Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
 prescribes penalties for several other types of tax non-compliance, including:
a)	
Failure to Register for Taxes:
Under 
Section 100
, a taxable person who 
fails or refuses to register for tax
 as required under Section 4 of the Act is liable to pay administrative penalties as follows:
•	
₦50,000
 for the first month in which the failure occurs; and
•	
₦25,000
 for each subsequent month that the failure continues.
In addition, any 
statutory body or company that awards a contract to an unregistered person
 is liable to an administrative penalty of 
₦5,000,000
.
b)	
Failure to Remit Taxes
Pursuant to 
Section 107
, a person who 
deducts, collects, or withholds tax
 under the Act (such as PAYE or Withholding Tax) and 
fails to remit the tax by the due date
 is liable to:
•	
the tax amount not remitted
;
•	an 
administrative penalty of 10% per annum
 of the tax not remitted; and
•	
interest
 at the prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria Monetary Policy Rate.
Additionally, any person 
convicted
 of an offence under this section may face 
imprisonment for up to three years
, or a 
fine not less than the principal tax due plus a penalty of up to 50%
, or 
both
.
c)   
Failure to Notify Change of Address
A taxable person who 
fails to notify the relevant tax authority
 of any change of address 
within 30 days
, gives a wrong address, or fails to comply with requirements regarding notification of permanent cessation of trade or business, is liable to an administrative penalty as follows:
•	
₦100,000
 for the first month in which the failure occurs; and
•	
₦5,000
 for each subsequent month that the failure continues.
These penalties are prescribed in 
Section 112 of the Act
 to ensure that taxpayers can be properly identified and communicated with by the tax authority.
d)	
False Claim of Tax Refund
Under 
Section 121
, any person who obtains a tax refund through a 
false or fictitious claim
 is liable to:
•	
recovery of the amount wrongly refunded
, and
•	an 
administrative penalty of 50%
 of the amount wrongly received, plus
•	
interest
 at the prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria Monetary Policy Rate.
These sanctions are designed to deter fraudulent refund claims and protect government revenue.
e)	
General Penalty
Where a person 
contravenes any provision
 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025 or commits an offence 
for which no specific penalty is provided
, the person is liable to:
•	an 
administrative penalty of ₦1,000,000
, or
•	
imprisonment for up to three years
 or a 
fine
, or 
both
, upon conviction.
This general penalty as provided under 
Section 127
 ensures that all breaches of the tax law attract appropriate sanctions even where the Act does not specify a particular penalty.
                                                        What is the Hotel Occupancy and Restaurant Consumption Law?
Hotel Occupancy and Restaurant Consumption Law is a law
                                                            enacted
                                                            by the Lagos State House of Assembly which imposes Tax on
                                                            goods
                                                            and services consumed in Hotels, Facility or Event Centres
                                                            within the territory of Lagos State.
                                                        Who pays the Hotel Occupancy and Restaurant Consumption
                                                        Tax? 
Any person, Corporate or otherwise who: Pays for the use or
                                                            possession of any hotel, facility or event centre; or
                                                            Purchases
                                                            consumable goods or service in any restaurant whether or not
                                                            located within a hotel in Lagos state.
                                                        Who is a Consumer?
A consumer includes a hotel guest or any person who makes use
                                                            of
                                                            a hotel, restaurant, event center or hotel facility for a
                                                            fee.
                                                        What is an Event Center?
It Includes halls, auditoriums, fields and places designated
                                                            for
                                                            public use at a fee.
                                                        How do you define a Hotel?
It includes a motel, guest house, apartment for short
                                                            letting,
                                                            tavern, meeting room and function hall whether or not
                                                            described
                                                            as a hotel by the operator.
                                                        How do you define a Hotel Facility?
                                                            It includes a room, suite, hall, open space or other
                                                            facility or
                                                            resource center which may be let out for a fee within a
                                                            hotel or
                                                            other facility covered by this law under a lease,
                                                            concession,
                                                            permit, right of license, contract or other agreement.
                                                        What is a Restaurant?
It includes any food sale outlet, bar, tavern, inn or café
                                                            whether or not located within a hotel.
                                                        How do Hotels, Facilities or Event Centres Register?
Any Hotel, Restaurant or other business affected by this law
                                                            shall, within 30 days of the commencement of this law (22nd
                                                            of
                                                            June 2009) or upon commencement of business, whichever is
                                                            earlier, register with the Lagos State Internal Revenue
                                                            Service
                                                            (LIRS) for the purpose of this law.
                                                        What Consumables and Services are Taxable?
The amount to which this Tax applies is the total cost of
                                                            Facilities, Consumables or Personal services supplied to a
                                                            customer in, by or on behalf of the hotel, restaurant or
                                                            event
                                                            centre.
                                                        What is the Consumption Tax Rate?
The rate of tax imposed by the law is 5% of the total bill
                                                            issued
                                                            to the customer excluding Value Added Tax and Service
                                                            Charge.
                                                        Who are the Collecting Agents?
TA person owning, managing or controlling any business or
                                                            supplying any goods or services chargeable under section 1
                                                            of
                                                            the Law shall collect this for and on behalf of the State,
                                                            the
                                                            tax imposed by the Law based on the Amount charged or
                                                            Payable by
                                                            the Customer in accordance with the provisions of Section 2
                                                            of
                                                            this Law.
                                                        When was the Effective Date of the Consumption Tax Law?
The Consumption Tax Law became effective on 1st of August,
                                                            2009.
                                                        What is the Process of Remittance?
Tax collected during a particular month must be paid to a
                                                            Lagos
                                                            State Government designated revenue collecting bank on or
                                                            before
                                                            the 20th day of the following month into the following
                                                            revenue
                                                            codes as applicable: Tax on Food: 425-32128, Tax on Drinks
                                                            in
                                                            bar: 425-4010042, Tax on Accommodation/Rental: 425-4010043,
                                                            Tax
                                                            on other Transactions: 425-4010044. Evidence of Remittance
                                                            must
                                                            be forwarded to the office of the Executive Chairman LIRS
                                                            and
                                                            must include:
The total amount of payments made for all chargeable
                                                                transactions during the preceding month.
The amount of tax collected by the agent during the
                                                                preceeding month.
                                                        What are the Penalties for Non-Remittance?
If a collecting Agent fails to file a report and remit taxes
                                                            collected within the time allowed by section 6(2) of the
                                                            Law,
                                                            that Agent shall, in addition to penalty of 10% of the
                                                            amount of
                                                            tax due, pay interest at the rate of 5% per annum above the
                                                            prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria Minimum Rediscount Rate
                                                            as
                                                            determined at the time of actual remittance. Furthermore,
                                                            any
                                                            Director, Manager, Officer, Agent or Employee of the
                                                            collecting
                                                            Agent who fails to comply with the provisions of the law,
                                                            shall
                                                            be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a
                                                            penalty of
                                                            Six (6) months imprisonment or a fine of Two Million Naira
                                                            (2,000,000.00) or both.
                                                        What happens to the Sales Tax Law?
                                                            As from the commencement of the Law, Sales Tax Law, Cap.
                                                            S.3,
                                                            Laws of Lagos State 2003 shall not apply to any facilities
                                                            or
                                                            transactions covered by this law.
Am I a High Net Worth Individual (HNWI)?
 You may be classified as a High Net Worth Individual if you are a professional, entrepreneur, business owner, company director, or executive who 
earns substantial 
                                                        income from your occupation or investments
. Individuals who own significant investment assets or wield considerable 
social or economic influence
 may also fall within 
                                                        the High Net Worth category.
Are HNWI's taxed differently from other Individuals?
No. High Net Worth Individuals are 
taxed in the same manner as other individual taxpayers
 under the provisions of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025. However, due to the peculiarity and 
                                                        complexity of their income sources, and to ensure administrative efficiency in managing their tax affairs (either directly or through their consultants) the Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) 
                                                        operates a dedicated unit responsible for handling the income tax returns and assessments of HNWIs.
As a HNWI, when should I file my tax returns?
Like all taxable individuals, you are required to file your annual income tax returns covering income from all sources as well as any reliefs and allowances claimed for the preceding year. Section (13)(1) of the 
                                                        Nigeria Tax Administration Act 2025 mandates that every taxable person must file annual income tax returns to the relevant tax authority for each year of assessment 
without notice or demand
.
Filing is done through the LIRS e-Tax platform: www.etax.lirs.net
What happens if I fail to file my income tax returns within the stipulated time?
If you fail to file your annual income tax returns before the deadline, LIRS is empowered to 
assume your income
 using relevant economic and social indicators applicable to your profile and raise a 
Best of Judgment 
                                                        (BOJ) Assessment
 in accordance with 
Section (35)(1) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025.
In addition, 
Section (101) of the NTAA 2025
 prescribes the following administrative penalties for failure to file returns:
•	₦100,000
 for the first month in which the default occurs; and
•	₦50,000
 for every subsequent month the default continues.
Beyond these penalties, persistent non-compliance may also attract 
a term of imprisonment
 upon conviction.
What documents do I need for filing my tax returns?
When filing your annual income tax returns, you are required to upload the following documents on the 
LIRS e-Tax platform
 www.etax.lirs.net
•	Duly completed Income Tax Form (Tax Form A)
 for return of income and claims for reliefs and allowances.
•	Financial Statements
 (where applicable).
•	Your own Tax Computation/Tax Position
 and 
evidence of payment
 of the computed tax.
•	Evidence of contributions/payments for:
	- Pension
	- Life Assurance Premium
	- National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS)
	- National Housing Fund (NHF)
(These are mandatory for relevant reliefs to be granted.)
•	Evidence of taxes paid at source
, including PAYE, Direct Assessment, and Withholding Taxes.
•	Other supporting documents
 relevant to your income tax returns.
Can I file my returns and pay tax under Self-Assessment before the due date?
 Yes. You are required to file returns and 
pay tax due
 in each year of assessment without notice or demand. This can be done by completing the Tax Form A on the e-tax 
                                                        platform and remitting the corresponding tax due through any of the in-app payment channels or at any branch of Lagos State Government designated revenue collecting banks.  
NOTE:
 Supporting documents must be uploaded for review to ascertain the correctness of the information provided and the adequacy of the tax paid.
I am an Individual under paid employment. PAYE is deducted by my employer from my salary; can I still be assessed as a High Net Worth Individual?
 Yes. You may still be classified as a High Net Worth Individual if you earn substantial 
additional income from sources other than your employment income
. Such income may include:
•	Directors’ fees
•	Rental income
•	Sitting allowances
•	Bonuses
•	Commissions
•	Share of profit
•	Dividends
•	Royalties
•	Interest income
•	Any other substantial investment or business income
These additional income streams, combined with your employment income, may place you within the HNWI category.
Why do I need to declare my income from Dividends and Interest if withholding tax deducted at source is already a final tax?
 Under 
Section (13)(2)(b) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, every taxable person must 
declare income from all sources
, including dividend and interest income on which withholding tax has been deducted.
Declaring these incomes ensures:
•	A 
holistic view of your total income and net worth
, which aids proper profiling and tax administration.
•	Proper application of 
reliefs and deductions
, where applicable.
While their declaration is required, 
franked investment incomes such as dividends and interest will be excluded from your taxable income before final assessment
.
When filing your income tax returns, you must upload all supporting documents related to these incomes, including 
withholding tax credit notes/receipts
. All verified withholding tax payments will be 
acknowledged and deducted
 accordingly.
Can I use withholding tax credit to offset my tax liability?
 Yes. Withholding tax (WHT) credit can be used to offset your tax liability, provided there is 
evidence that the tax was deducted and properly remitted
 to the government.
Taxable persons are therefore advised to 
request and obtain WHT credit notes/receipts
 from the deducting entity, as these documents serve as proof and must be presented when filing your tax returns.
What remedies are available to me if I dispute a tax assessment?
 If you disagree with a tax assessment, you must file a 
Notice of Objection
 on the e-Tax platform within the statutory period of 
30 days
 from the date you received the assessment. Your objection must clearly state the 
specific grounds of objection
, and you must also provide 
evidence of payment of the undisputed portion
 of the assessment.
Upon receipt of your objection, the LIRS will review the grounds and all supporting documents submitted. If the objection is found to have merit, LIRS may revise the assessment and issue a 
Notice of Amended Assessment
.
However, if the grounds of objection are considered unsatisfactory, LIRS will issue a 
Notice of Refusal to Amend (NORA)
, confirming the original assessment.
What happens if I fail to object to or pay an assessed tax within 30 days?
  If an assessment arising from your annual tax return or a Best of Judgment (BOJ) is not objected to or paid within 
30 days
, the following consequences apply:
•	The assessment 
becomes final and conclusive
, and you are required to pay the tax liability within 
60 days
.
•	LIRS will issue and serve a 
Demand Notice
, which will include the tax due along with applicable penalties and interest.
•	If you fail to comply with the Demand Notice, LIRS may 
initiate legal action
, either through civil proceedings or criminal prosecution, as provided under the relevant provisions of the 
Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
 and the Criminal Code, to recover the outstanding tax liability.
I filed my annual income tax returns and paid my taxes as and when due in the past six years, but I recently received additional assessments for those years from LIRS. Does LIRS have the power to raise additional assessments and am I liable to pay them?
 LIRS has the power to raise an 
additional assessment
 where the tax paid initially is 
not commensurate with the taxpayer’s economic status
, especially in situations where such information was not disclosed at the time of filing the statutory income tax returns.
Additionally, LIRS may raise an additional assessment where it discovers 
new or additional information or facts
 that ought to have been considered before issuing the initial assessment.
These powers are provided under 
Section (36) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, which allows the tax authority to reassess a taxpayer when relevant information comes to light or when the original assessment is incomplete or inaccurate.
What if I have not filed tax returns or paid taxes in the last six years? Am I liable?
Yes, you are liable.
Apart from the criminal consequences for failing to file income tax returns as provided under the Act, the tax authority is also empowered to raise a 
Best of Judgment (BOJ) Assessment
 covering the period of non-compliance, in accordance with 
Section (35) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
.
You will therefore be assessed for the tax due for those years, in addition to all penalties prescribed by law.
Are there other penalties or sanctions that might be imposed on me under the provisions of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025?
Yes. The Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025 prescribes several penalties and sanctions for various tax offences. These include but are not limited to: 
OFFENSE
PENALTY
SECTION
Failure to Register
=N=50,000 for the first month of default and =N=25,000 for each subsequent month
Section (100)
Failure to keep records and books of account
Individual: =N=10,000
Section (102)
Failure to notify change of address and cessation
=N=100,000 for the first month of default and =N=5,000 for each subsequent month
Section (112)
Offences by authorized or unauthorized persons
Fine of 200% of the sum in question, or imprisonment for 3 years, or both
Section (114)
False declaration
Administrative penalty of =N=1,000,000 in addition to the payment of the tax undercharged. Upon conviction, additional =N=1,000,000 plus 3 years prison
Section (124)
Making False statement and Returns
=N=50,000 or 6 months imprisonment in addition to treble the amount of tax due
96(1)(b)
Taxpayers are therefore advised to comply with all filing, record-keeping, honesty and tax obligations to avoid these sanctions.
How can I obtain an Electronic Tax Clearance Certificate (e-TCC)?
 You can apply for an Electronic Tax Clearance Certificate (e-TCC) 
at any time
 through the LIRS e-Tax platform at www.etax.lirs.net
To be eligible for an e-TCC, you must meet the following conditions:
•	Your e-Tax profile must include a 
recent passport photograph
 for identification.
•	You must have provided a 
complete residential address
 in your e-Tax profile.
•	You must have 
filed your annual income tax returns
 on the e-Tax platform for the last 
three years
.
•	You must have obtained 
tax assessment
 from LIRS for the last 
three years
 and 
all tax liabilities must be fully paid
.
Once all requirements are satisfied and payment is made, you can 
generate your e-TCC instantly
 on the eTax platform.
Do I have any other tax obligations to the Government (as an Employer of Labour or as an Individual)?
Yes. In addition to filing and paying your own income tax, you may have other tax obligations under the law. 
As an Employer of Labour
, you are required to file, with the relevant tax authority, 
annual returns of income paid to employees
 on or before 
31st January
 every year, pursuant to Section (14)(1&2) of the NTAA 2025.
You also have the following obligations:
 •	Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE): 
All employers must deduct the appropriate tax from employees’ salaries and remit same to LIRS on or before the 
10th day of the following month
.
 •	Withholding Tax (WHT):
 Whenever you, as an individual or organization, pay an individual or unincorporated entity any of the under-listed, you are required to deduct and remit the appropriate withholding tax 
                                                        to LIRS on or before the 
30th day of the following month
, through any designated revenue collecting bank. 
You must also ensure that your clients effect withholding tax deductions and remittances where applicable.
Transactions attracting WHT includes:
•	Rent
•	Commission
•	Management / Professional / Consultancy Services
•	Colocation and Telecommunication Services
•	Interest
•	Dividend  
•	Directors’ Fees
•	Contracts for Services or Supplies
•	Royalty
•	Entertainers’ and Sportspersons’ Fees
•	Building/Construction
•	Winnings
(See FAQ on Withholding Taxes for details)
•	
Capital Gains Tax (CGT): Under the Nigeria Tax Act (NTA) 2025, chargeable gains arise from the disposal of all forms of property, whether located in Nigeria or elsewhere, including shares, options, digital or virtual assets, 
                                                        debts, incorporeal property, foreign currency, and assets created by the disposer. Gains may arise from sales, transfers, assignments, compulsory acquisitions, lease transactions, compensation for loss of office, insurance proceeds 
                                                        for loss or depreciation of assets, surrender or forfeiture of rights, or consideration for the use or exploitation of assets.
The Act also provides limited exemptions, including:
-    Disposal of shares where the proceeds do not exceed ₦150,000,000 and the gains do not exceed ₦10,000,000 within any 12-month period;
-	Transfers of shares under regulated securities-lending transactions;
-	Cases where proceeds from disposal of shares are reinvested in the same year of assessment in acquiring shares in a Nigerian company (with tax payable only on any uninvested balance); and
-	Compensation or damages of up to ₦50,000,000 for personal injury, professional injury, libel, slander, enticement, or loss of office (where compensation exceeds ₦50,000,000, only the excess is treated as a chargeable gain). Where compensation 
                                                        for loss of office is paid, the payer is required to 
deduct the applicable tax at source and remit it to the relevant tax authority on or before the 10th day of the month following the month of payment
, consistent with the PAYE remittance timeline.
Under the new tax regime, 
Capital Gains Tax is now assessed using the graduated income tax rate
, as chargeable gains from the disposal of chargeable assets now form part of an individual’s total income and must be declared accordingly in the annual income tax returns.
•	Stamp Duties:
 Stamp duty is payable whenever a taxable person executes a document, an instrument or agreement that is dutiable under the law. Such instruments must be submitted for assessment, and payment made directly to the Lagos State Government through any designated 
                                                        revenue collecting bank. Stamping is required to give the document 
legal and governmental recognition
 and make it 
admissible in court
 according to 
Section (127) NTA 2025
.
The duty is ordinarily 
borne by the transferee of interest, beneficiary of the service, or person taking security
 under the transaction. Stamp duties may be charged at a flat rate or on an ad valorem (percentage-based) basis, and evidence of income tax payment is required before stamping.
Examples of dutiable instruments include 
Deeds of Assignment, Mortgages, Powers of Attorney, MoUs, Tenancy/Lease Agreements, and other contractual instruments
. Some instruments are 
exempt under Section (185) NTA 2025
, such as transfers of government securities or instruments relating to ships/vessels.
(See FAQ on Stamp Duties for further details)
NOTE!!!
 Patronising touts or possessing fake tax documents is a 
criminal offence
, and offenders will be prosecuted.
                                                            What is Eco Fiscal Solution or System otherwise known as Fiscalization?
                                                            Eco Fiscal Solution (EFS) is a software developed by the LIRS solely for automating Consumption tax collection in Lagos State. 
                                                            The 2017 Hotel Occupancy and Restaurants Consumption Tax (HORCT) regulations are the legal framework used in designing EFS, 
                                                            which, when integrated with a Point of Sales system, records all the transactions of a commercial outlet under HORCT and transmits 
                                                            records of each transaction to the Online Tax System in real-time.
                                                            What is the LIRS Online Tax System (OTS)?
                                                            The LIRS Online Tax System (OTS) is a real-time database monitoring system for observing live transactions.
                                                            All Collection Agents invoices are visible in real-time on the Online Tax System. EFS plays a vital role in 
                                                            OTS by transmitting records of all the transactions to OTS. All LIRS officials involved in consumption tax 
                                                            collection have login credentials to the OTS.
                                                            The LIRS website is www.lirs.gov.ng
                                                            What is the LIRS POS application?
                                                            The POS Application is a Point of Sales system integrated with EFS. POS app sales are immediately visible on the Online Tax System (OTS). 
                                                            The application can be web-based, mobile, or hosted on a handheld POS device.
                                                            Which category of Collecting Agents use the LIRS POS application?
                                                            Collecting agents with non-existing infrastructure
                                                            Why do I need to comply with the EFS or Fiscalization?
                                                            (i) It is unlawful not to comply with the 2017 HORC regulations and the 2009 HORCT Law of the Lagos State.
                                                            (ii) Eco Fiscal Solution aims at ensuring efficiency and transparency in the collection of Consumption Tax in Lagos State. 
                                                            Furthermore, it allows Collecting Agents to track their day-to-day transactions.
                                                            	What is the minimum requirement for compliance?
                                                            The minimum requirements for compliance are: 
                                                            a.	Allow EFS to be integrated with existing Point of Sales systems.
                                                            b.	Internet connectivity for invoice upload.
                                                            c.	Making use of the LIRS POS application for Agents without existing POS.
                                                            	Will EFS affect or interfere with the Invoicing/Accounting System of the Collecting Agents?
                                                            No, it will not.  
                                                            	What happens if EFS fails?
                                                            The Collecting Agent should immediately report to LIRS customer care by calling 0700 2255 5477 or email info@lirs.net for necessary technical support. 
                                                            It is in the best interest of the Collecting Agent to do so as soon as possible. As manual receipts and other non-electronic record-keeping format(s)will not be acceptable.
                                                            	What are the penalties for non-compliance with Fiscalization?
                                                            The penalty for non-compliance shall be imprisonment or a fine of Two Million Naira (=N= 2,000,000.00) or both. 
                                                            	What are the benefits of Fiscalization to Collecting Agents?
                                                            Collecting Agents will benefit from having unhindered access to information on all sales transactions conducted in their establishments. 
                                                            The information is visible irrespective of the location of owners or approved personnel. This allows transparency in the recording of sales transactions.
                                                            	What are the benefits of Fiscalization to Consumers?
                                                            An assurance that consumption taxes charged on their purchases are appropriately remitted to government. 
                                                            Future Consumer Reward Program 
                                                            	Troubleshooting EFS when invoices are not syncing to OTS
                                                            An agent’s invoices will not synchronise to the Online Tax System (OTS) if;
                                                            (i). The EFS server is down. This will be noted by a red dot or synchronise button in front of the EFS server and each invoice.
                                                            (ii). Agent is not connected to the internet. Without an internet connection, invoices will not synchronise from EFS to the Online Tax System (OTS).
                                                            (iii) If parameters like database credentials, IP address, API keys, and server name of the Agent that was used in configuring EFS changes.
                                                            	After Configuration, how can an agent determine whether EFS is connected to OTS?
                                                            I.  An Agent/LIRS official can determine whether EFS is connected to the LIRS Online Tax system (OTS). The green or red display beside the server button indicates this.
                                                            II.	This also serves as a way to monitor the connection of EFS to the LIRS Online Tax System (OTS).
                                                            •	Green light indicates successful connection.
                                                            •	Red light indicates unsuccessful connection.
                                                            	On which operating systems can EFS be installed on? 
                                                            EFS can only be installed on MAC, Linux & Windows 32 & 64-bit Operating System
                                                            	Where can I download EFS? 
                                                            Download the EFS executable from LIRS official website: (Ex. https://horc.lirs.net/efs/efs-server-1-10-23.zip) 
                                                            	How do I install EFS?
                                                            The following are the steps for installing EFS for agents/ merchants. You can install the EFS server on any platform (Windows, Linux, Mac):
                                                            I.	Download the EFS executable from LIRS official website –                                              
                                                            (Ex. https://horc.lirs.net/efs/efs-server-1-10-23.zip) 
                                                            II.	Install EFS by double-clicking on the installer (like “efs.exe” for Windows)
                                                            III.	Accept the installation location, terms & conditions.
                                                            IV.	Complete the installation by clicking on finish.
                                                            	What are the classes of Collecting Agents?
                                                            There are two categories of Collecting Agents:
                                                            (i). Collecting Agents with existing infrastructure or Point of Sales system (POS). These Agents have sales and inventory management systems like Oracle, QuickBooks, and EposNow. 
                                                            These are the Agents whose POS will be integrated with EFS.
                                                            (ii). Collecting Agents with non-existing infrastructure or no Point of Sales system (POS). These Agents have no sales and inventory management system in place. They rely on manual sales & inventory management methods like Excel sheets and logbooks.
                                                            These Agents will be provided with the LIRS Point of Sales (POS) application.
                                                        How can i access the annual returns platform?
 Visit www.lirs.gov.ng. Click on the annual returns pop up on our website and you will be redirected to the annual returns portal.
                                                        What are the login credentials?
Company Tax Payer ID or RC Number as the user name with an auto-generated password provided by the agency. This password has already been sent to all registered companies.
                                                       I do not have a login password, what do I do?
Call our contact centre on 09056986503, visit the nearest Tax Station, or visit the Personal Income Tax Directorate in HQ.
                                                        I cannot access my account and I am sure my password is correct, what should i do?
 Please visit the nearest tax station or LIRS HQ to resolve the login credential issues.
                                                        What will I do if I get this error message, "wrong username and password?"
 Contact LIRS HQ through customer service or nearest tax station.
                                                        What details will I need to register a new company on the annual returns platform?
Company Name.
RC Number.
Payer ID.
Company Address.
Sector.
Contact Name.
Contact Phone Number.
Email.
Password.
                                                        Will I receive a confirmation for registration in my mailbox?
 Yes. An acknowledged mail containing the username and password of the company will be sent to your mailbox.
                                                        I have been able to login to the platform, how do i download the required templates?
 All required templates can be downloaded on the landing page by clicking on home tab.
                                                        What will I do if I get this error message, "Your are already logged in on another system, and you cannot login on two different platforms concurrently?
Ensure no one else has logged in on any other system with your login details and if problem persists contact LIRS HQ.
                                                       What do I do if I can not download any of the templates from my dashboard?
The application works perfectly with all browsers. You can however switch to a different browser to access the application.
                                                        Can I use the same mobile number for all my employees when filing?
No. Each employee will have their mobile number registered. The application will not allow duplicated mobile numbers. Hence, every member of staff must have a unique mobile phone number.
                                                       I have uploaded 168 employees and only 83 were submitted, what do I do?
This is a result of a duplicated phone number or Taxpayer ID for the staff. Ensure there are no duplicated records.
                                                        I kept getting an error message "this_is_an_invalid_file" when I tried uploading?
You can only use the CSV format downloaded on our portal.
                                                        Can i edit annual returns, projection, payment schedule and witholding after submission?
No. Submitted records cannot be edited by tax payers. Visit LIRS HQ for any amendments required after submission.
                                                        What if the number of staff on Print Acknowledgement is showing "0" staff?
Ensure all templates have been uploaded and if problem persists please contact LIRS HQ.
                                                        What if I have uploaded and submitted witholding tax, projection, payment schedule, but yet to upload annual returns, can I still log-in later to upload the annual returns seperately?
Yes. As long as you have not uploaded or submitted any annual returns.
                                                        If I have uploaded and submitted witholding tax, projection, payment schedule, but yet to upload annual returns, can I submit the next day?
Yes. As long as they are yet to be submitted.
                                                        I was registering online and my browser froze, so I could not register, what do I do?
Restart your computer system and start all over again.
                                                        Can I file my annual returns manually at a tax station?
No. But you can be assisted to file returns online at the nearest tax station.
                                                        How can i change my email or mailing address?
Please visit or contact the nearest tax station or LIRS HQ.
                                                        I missed the deadline for filing annual returns, what do I do?
Please contact LIRS HQ for further information.
                                                        Can I file for expatriate & local staff simultaneously or seprately?
It is possible to file together or separetly. A portal will be provided for separate filling where applicable.
                                                        Can I file on behalf of another company?
Consultants would need to show a letter of engagement or CAC Certificate before you can be given access to file on behalf of another company.
Why do I have to stamp my documents?
Stamping your documents is required to 
confer legal and governmental recognition
 on the document and to ensure its 
admissibility as evidence in court
.
This requirement is provided under 
Section 127 of the Nigeria Tax Act (NTA), 2025
.
Who pays stamp duties?
Stamp duties are paid by the 
transferee of interest
 in a real property, the 
beneficiary of a service
 for which consideration has been paid, or any other person who takes security in a transaction for which an instrument is executed.
In other words, the person who 
receives the benefit or interest
 under the transaction is responsible for paying the stamp duty.
What is the difference between flat rate and ad valorem stamp duties?
Stamp duty is described as 
ad valorem
 when the duty is calculated as a 
percentage of the value
 of the dutiable instrument.
It is considered 
flat rate
 when the duty is based on a 
fixed charge
, regardless of the value, size, or quantity of the item or transaction being stamped.
Why is evidence of income tax payment a prerequisite before stamping?
Evidence of income tax payment is required before a document can be stamped because the tax authority must ensure that all relevant taxes connected to the transaction or the parties have been fully paid.
Requiring proof of tax compliance helps the tax authority:
•	Verify that the taxable person has met their tax obligations; and
•	Ensure that stamps are only applied to transactions involving compliant taxpayers, in accordance with the law.
What are the various types of stampable instruments?
The following are examples of instruments that attract stamp duty:
•	Deed of Assignment
•	Deed of Mortgage
•	Power of Attorney
•	Deed of Assent
•	Vesting Deeds
•	Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
•	Memorandum of Lease / Memorandum of Loss (as applicable)
•	Contract Agreements
•	Tenancy Agreements
•	Lease Agreements
•	Any other agreement or instrument prescribed under the law
These instruments must be stamped to confer legal validity and admissibility in court.
Which instruments are exempted from payment of Stamp Duties?
Section (185) Nigeria Tax Act (NTA) 2025
 provides a list of instruments that are exempted from stamp duty. Examples of such exemptions include:
•	Instruments relating to the 
transfer of shares in Government or legislative stocks or funds of Nigeria
.
•	Instruments for the sale, transfer, or disposition (whether absolutely, by mortgage, or otherwise) of 
any ship or vessel
, or any part, interest, share, or property in such ship or vessel.
•	Instruments on which the duty would be payable by the 
Nigerian Government
, or any of its ministries, departments, or agencies.
For the complete and exhaustive list of exempt instruments, please refer to 
Section (185) NTA 2025
.
Which laws governs stamp duty?
Stamp duty in Nigeria is governed primarily by the 
Nigeria Tax Act (NTA) 2025
 and the 
Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
.
These two laws provide the legal framework for the imposition, administration, exemption, and enforcement of stamp duties in the country.
What are the instruments you can stamp at the State and Federal level?
Instruments are stamped at different levels of government depending on the parties involved:
•	
State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS):
 Instruments executed 
between individuals and non-corporate entities
 are stamped at the State level.
•	
Nigeria Revenue Service (NRS)
: Instruments that 
involve corporate bodies
 are stamped at the Federal level.
Is there any penalty for late stamping?
A person who fails to stamp a dutiable instrument in accordance with the applicable tax laws is liable to pay:
•	
A penalty of 10% of the unpaid stamp duty
, plus
•	
Interest calculated at the prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria Monetary Policy Rate (MPR).
These penalties are provided under 
Sections 110–113 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, which set out the full range of sanctions relating to late or non-stamping of instruments, 
                                                        failure to disclose material facts, and fraud in relation to stamps.
Can I transfer my stamp duty payment for one instrument to another instrument?
No. Stamp duty paid on one instrument 
cannot be transferred
 to another instrument. Each instrument attracts stamp duty independently and must be stamped and paid for accordingly.
How can stamp duty payable be determined?
Stamp duty payable is determined based on the 
applicable rates prescribed in the Nigeria Tax Act (NTA) 2025
.
These rates may be either 
ad valorem (percentage-based)
 or 
flat rates
, depending on the type of instrument being stamped.
Can stamp duty be paid in Lagos State for a land transaction executed outside the State?
No. Stamp duty on land transactions must be paid in the 
State where the land is located
. Therefore, Lagos State cannot collect stamp duty for land transactions executed outside the State, and vice versa.
Where are stamp duties offices in Lagos?
•	Alausa (HQ) Stamp Duty Office
  Block 14, Room 6, Lands Bureau, The Secretariat,
  Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos.
  Tel: 09059082680
•	Ikeja Stamp Duty Office
  Block 8, Old Secretariat, Oba Akinjobi Road,
  Ikeja, Lagos.
  Tel: 09059082679
•	City Hall Stamp Duty OfFice
  City Hall Tax Station,
  Lagos Island, Lagos.
  Tel: 09059082674
•	Festac Stamp Duty Office
  Festac Tax Station Plot 129 Block 10
  Amuwo Odofin Industrial Layout,
  By Festac Link Road,
  Amuwo Odofin, Lagos.
  Tel: 09059082691
•	Victoria Island Stamp Duty Office
  Victoria Island 3 Tax Station
  9, Ahmed Onibudo Street,
  Victoria Island, Lagos.
  Tel: 09059082694
•	Lekki Stamp Duty Office
  Access Bank Building, Chevron Round About,
  Km 17, Lekki-Epe Expressway, Lagos.
  Tel: 09059082694
What are the payment codes for Stamp Duty?
Agency Code:   		          4250408 or 13564
Stamp Duty Revenue Code:	      4010010 or 32110
NOTE!!!
 Patronizing touts or possessing fake tax documents is a 
criminal offence
, and offenders will be prosecuted
What is the basis for conducting a tax audit exercise?
                                                        Pursuant to 
Section (36) and Section (57) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, a tax audit exercise may be conducted on a person/corporate body 
                                                        by the tax authority during the year of assessment or within six years after its expiration, and may be carried out as frequently as deemed necessary.
How does LIRS notify entities about a tax audit?
                                                         LIRS issues and serves a 
notification letter
 to entities to be audited within the State, informing them amongst other things, of the scheduled tax audit exercise, 
                                                         the authorized officers who will conduct the exercise, and the information or documents required for the audit exercise.
Is tax audit applicable where the company is yet to commence operation?
No
. The objective of the tax audit exercise is to ensure compliance with the relevant tax laws, particularly with respect to the adequacy of allowances claimable by the taxable person, as well as the correctness of deductions and remittances made on all taxable income.
I started business activities in July 2025, can I be audited in 2026?
                                                        Yes, for the 
period of operation
 that falls within the audit year, in this case, six (6) months. Except where the tax authority determines otherwise.
My company just received a tax audit notification letter. What documents does the company have to make available?
                                                        A 
requirement checklist
 is usually attached to the audit notification letter. Essentially, the audit team should be provided with documents such as staff payroll, audited financial statements, evidence of statutory reliefs and contributions, verifiable account and bank payment vouchers, rent agreements, contracts of employment, amongst other 
items listed in the addendum
 to the letter.
What happens if I refuse to provide documents required for a tax audit?
                                                        Refusal to provide the documents or information required for a tax audit constitutes an offence under the 
Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
. Such refusal will attract 
administrative penalties
 and result in 
legal action
 against the company and its principal officers. Upon conviction, such refusal could also lead to 
imprisonment
 of the principal 
                                                        officers, in accordance with 
Section (108) and Section (130) of the NTAA 2025
.
What happens after the tax audit exercise has been carried out on my company?
                                                        	There are three possible outcomes following a tax audit exercise. These are:
i.	
Outstanding Liabilities Identified
: if the audit reveals a shortfall in tax remittances, 
LIRS raises an assessment
 for the outstanding amount. The company is notified through a 
Notice of Assessment
 which provides instructions for 
payment or objection
, as applicable.
ii.	
No Shortfall Detected
: where the company has made all required remittances correctly, 
no assessment is raised
.
iii.	
Overpayment by the Entity
: in the case of overpayment, 
LIRS acknowledges the excess
 and informs the company while providing guidance on the process for a 
refund or application of the excess as a tax credit
 against future tax liability.
I have a previously scheduled statutory commitment to other regulatory bodies that coincides with the date of the tax audit, what do l do?
                                                        In such an instance, the taxpayer is required to 
submit a written request to LIRS
, proposing a reasonable alternate date for the originally scheduled tax audit. LIRS will 
review the request on its merits
 and communicate its decision regarding the proposed rescheduling.
Can the Notice of Assessment of an audit exercise conducted on my company be communicated electronically?
Yes
. The taxpayer is required to 
send such request via email
 to taxauditcustomercare@lirs.net . Alternatively, the application may be made in writing to the Executive Chairman, Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (Lagos Revenue House, Assbifi Road, Central Business District, Ikeja, Lagos).
My company has been issued a Notice of Assessment for the recently completed tax 
                                                        audit. What payment channels are available?
                                                        You can 
generate payment bill reference
 on the 
LIRS e-Tax platform
 using the 
Tax Audit Revenue Code-32125
 and 
Penalties Code-32104
 for the respective payments. Payment can then be made conveniently through the electronic payment platform, or at any of the Lagos State designated revenue-collecting banks.
When and how should I respond to a Notice of Assessment?
You should 
immediately effect payment
 through the 
LIRS eTax platform
 or at 
designated revenue-collecting banks
 using the 
Tax Audit Revenue Code-32125
 and 
Penalties Code-32104 respectively
.
In cases where the assessment is deemed unsatisfactory, taxpayers may 
object
 to the assessment. Note that, in accordance with 
Section (41) of the NTAA 2025
, the notice of objection must be in writing and delivered 
within 30 days
 from the date of receipt of the 
Notice of Assessment
. Such objection must include:
•	Justified specific grounds of objection
,
•	Computed undisputed amount
, and
•	Evidence of payment
 of the undisputed portion
Does the company have to pay the undisputed portion of audit liabilities for an objection to be valid and considered?
Yes
. Pursuant to 
Section 41(2) of the NTAA 2025
, a statement of 
undisputed amount
 along with 
evidence of payment of that amount
 is a prerequisite for a valid objection.
The tax authority is empowered to 
enforce payment
 of the undisputed portion of the assessed tax liability. Payment of the undisputed amount demonstrates 
good faith of the taxable person
 and underscores the importance of 
prompt payment of taxes due to the government
.
Why are payroll or WHT values provided to the LIRS audit team sometimes materially different from those used in liability computation, resulting in a higher assessment?
                                                        Following an audit exercise, 
LIRS conducts an independent verification of all information
 submitted by the company, including payroll and WHT data. In addition to the documents provided by the company, the Agency leverages multiple credible third-party information sources such as; statutory filings, 
                                                        financial institutions, regulatory bodies, and other data repositories, to validate the accuracy and completeness of the records. If 
credible evidence of discrepancies, omissions, or inconsistencies
 are identified or if it is determined that the taxable person provided 
false information
 to the tax 
                                                        audit team, the Agency is empowered to 
adopt corrected figures
 and raise an assessment based on credible information at its disposal.
The 
right to object
 to the assessment can still be exercised 
within 30 days
 from the date of receipt of the 
Notice of Assessment
. 
NOTE
: Pursuant to the 
provisions of the NTAA 2025
, it is a 
punishable offense
 to submit incorrect accounts or provide false statements and returns to the tax authority.
Why should I pay Personal Income Tax?
Personal Income Tax is not optional; it is a legal duty. 
Section 24(f) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999
 provides 
                                                        that every citizen has a duty to 
declare his or her income honestly
 to the appropriate lawful authorities and 
pay tax promptly
.
In addition, 
Section 13(1) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
 requires every individual to 
file income tax returns annually
                                                        with the State Internal Revenue Service in the state of residence and to 
pay the tax due
.
Why do I need to present evidence of income tax payment before my application for building plan is approved?
In Lagos State, an applicant for building plan approval is required to present evidence of tax payment as part of the statutory approval requirements.
This requirement is expressly provided for under 
Section 72(2) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, which mandates the presentation of a Tax Clearance Certificate 
                                                        (TCC) when applying for certain permits, including building plan approval.
It is important to note that the NTAA 2025 is 
a Federal Law
, not a Lagos State law. Consequently, the demand for a Tax Clearance Certificate in support of building plan applications is 
lawful and 
                                                        enforceable in every state of the Federation
, including Ogun, Edo, Enugu, Kano, Kaduna, Borno, Plateau, the FCT and others.
What is the role of LIRS in the process of Building Plan Approval?
 In the building plan approval process, LIRS is responsible for 
confirming that an applicant has paid the appropriate Personal Income Tax
.
Documents submitted by applicants are forwarded to LIRS by the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPPA), the New Town Development Authority (NTDA), and other relevant MDAs. Upon receipt, LIRS:
•	verifies the 
adequacy of tax paid
 by the applicant, and
•	confirms the 
authenticity of the Tax Clearance Certificate
 presented.
It is important to note that LIRS does not approve or reject building plans; it performs only the statutory tax verification required under the law.
What responses can I expect from LIRS when my tax status is being verified?
 When confirming an applicant’s tax status, LIRS may respond in one of the following ways depending on the findings:
.
a)	Adequate Tax Payment
Where the applicant presents a Tax Clearance Certificate (TCC) and LIRS is able to confirm the authenticity of the certificate and the payment made is deemed adequate, LIRS issues a 
confirmation of payment
 and forwards
                                                        an advice to the appropriate MDA, usually within 24 hours.
b)	Irregular or Unconfirmed Tax Clearance/Payment
Where an applicant claims to have paid taxes and presents supporting evidence, but LIRS is unable to confirm that the tax clearance emanates from LIRS or that the tax payment was made into the Lagos State Government designated account, LIRS will:
•	initiate 
further investigation
 to resolve the irregularity and identify any culprit; and
•	in the interim, 
raise an appropriate assessment
 and advise the taxpayer, through the originating MDA, to pay the tax due.
c)	Inadequate Tax Payment
Where the applicant’s evidence of payment is genuine but the amount paid is not commensurate with the applicant’s income or socio-economic status, LIRS raises an 
additional assessment
 and advises the applicant through the originating MDA.
d)	No Tax Payment 
Where there is no evidence that the applicant has paid any tax, LIRS raises an 
assessment
 and demands payment of the appropriate tax.
I have been assessed by one of LIRS tax stations and I paid fully based on the assessment notice issued to me. Why should I be asked to pay additional tax for the processing of my Building Plan?
LIRS has the power to raise an 
additional assessment
 where the tax paid initially is 
not commensurate with the taxpayer’s economic status
, especially in situations where such information was not disclosed at the time of filing the statutory income tax returns.
Additionally, LIRS may raise an additional assessment where it discovers 
new or additional information or facts
 that ought to have been considered before issuing the initial assessment.
These powers are provided under 
Section 36 of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
, which allows the tax authority to reassess a taxpayer when relevant information comes to light or when the original assessment is incomplete or inaccurate.
How does LIRS relate my application for building plan approval to the amount of Personal Income Tax I should pay?
In determining the 
tax due
 or assessing whether the tax previously paid is 
adequate
, LIRS considers several variables that help establish the applicant’s income profile and economic capacity. These include:
•	
Location of the property
•	
Value of the property
•	
Purpose of the property
, e.g., industrial/commercial or owner-occupied/residential
•	
Source of financing for the project
, as stated by the applicant, such as:
     -	
Borrowed funds
 – evidence of a bank loan agreement. Note that, banks grant loans based on projected cash flows and the applicant’s financial history and this reflects previously earned income.
     -	
Savings
 – evidence showing that the income saved was declared and adequate taxes were paid on it.
•	
Tax paid previously
 for the relevant years under review.
These variables allow the LIRS determine whether the applicant’s declared income and tax payments reasonably correspond with their financial capacity as evidenced by the building project.
I am a pensioner, given that Pension Income is not taxable, do I need to pay additional tax for my Building Plan?
No. 
If the building project is financed entirely from your pension income
, then no additional tax is required because pension income is tax-exempt.
However, if 
other personal funds
 are used to finance the project, you must show 
evidence of tax paid
 on those additional sources of income. Such income should also have been declared when filing your annual income tax returns.
NOTE:
 Being a pensioner 
does not exempt you from filing annual tax returns
, and any income earned 
other than pension income
 is taxable.
The building is jointly owned and financed with my spouse. Are we both liable to pay tax?
Yes. Where a property is jointly owned and/or jointly financed, 
each person must show evidence of tax payment that is commensurate with their respective income
.
LIRS will assess both parties individually to confirm that the funds contributed toward the project came from properly taxed income.
The applicant is not resident in Nigeria; does he have to pay income tax in Nigeria?
No. A non-resident applicant is not required to pay Personal Income Tax in Nigeria. However, the applicant 
must provide evidence of tax payment in the country where he/she is domiciled
.
NOTE:
 LIRS will verify the authenticity of any foreign tax documents submitted.
The applicant is resident in Nigeria but in another State; does he have to pay tax in Lagos State?
No. An applicant who resides outside Lagos State is required to pay Personal Income Tax 
in the state of residence
, not Lagos State.
However, the applicant must 
provide evidence of tax paid in that state
, and LIRS will review the documents to confirm both 
authenticity
 and 
adequacy of the tax paid
.
What is the difference between Personal Income Tax and Building Plan Approval fees?
Personal Income Tax (PIT) is a 
compulsory tax
 paid by every income-earning resident of Nigeria (in this case, Lagos State) regardless of whether they apply for or receive any government service. 
                                                        It is mandatory and cannot be avoided once income is earned.
Building Plan Approval fees (payable to the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development) as well as other dues paid to the Lagos State Government are 
user charges
. These include approval fees, 
                                                        application fees, parking fees, water rates, and similar levies. They are 
service-related and avoidable
, because they arise only when an individual requests a particular service from the government.
In summary:
•	Personal Income Tax is compulsory and unavoidable once income is earned.
•	Building Plan Approval fees is a service-related charge that apply only when the service is requested.
What is the Informal Sector?
The informal sector consists of people who operate small, unregistered and/or unstructured businesses (e.g., artisans, traders, and market men and women).
How much tax do I (people) pay in the informal sector?
The baseline payment is the presumptive tax, which is a small, fixed amount. This lower tax rate is an entry rate and is premised 
                                                        on the nature of their business and/or economic activities. This is to encourage them to register, pay tax easily (comply) and support small-scale businesses.
                                                        However, it is not payable by everyone in the sector as tax is premised on income.
How do I (people) pay my tax as an artisan or trader?
You need to:
1.	Fill out the 
abridged Form A
, provide your Statement of Account and pay through the assigned IBILE Agent(s) or
2.	Pay through the E-Tax App
3.	For Trade Artisan’s you can state your 
Association’s name and Corporate Identification Number (CID)
 on your teller 
                                                        at a government approved bank.
Can I get my e-TCC (Electronic Tax Clearance Certificate) if I pay through my association?
Yes.
You will get your e-TCC in your name and it may also state your association’s name, however you have to ensure you file 
                                                        your annual income tax returns annually.
Can I use my e-TCC from my association for C of O or land permit applications?
Yes.
Although, you will be required to file your annual income tax returns and make additional payment beyond the presumptive 
                                                        tax paid through the artisan association or market.
What can I use my e-TCC for?
You can use your e-TCC for:
•	School admissions for your children.
•	Vehicle registration and offences.
•	Government-related applications (e.g., land permits) after you have filed your returns. You will be properly assessed 
                                                        and may be required to pay additional tax commensurate to your income. 
Can I pay more than the presumptive tax as an informal sector trader?
Yes.
You are encouraged to honestly declare your business earnings (aggregate income) in line with section 24(F) of 1999 constitution 
                                                        of the Federal republic of Nigeria and the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) (take out Personal Income Tax Act) for tax purpose. 
                                                        Full disclosure of income by you will prevent or minimize additional tax liability being raised to issue Tax Clearance Certificate 
                                                        (TCC) for better opportunities.
Can I pay my taxes in any bank?
No.
Only 
designated banks approved by the Lagos State Government
 can collect LIRS payments.
What is IBILE-HUB?
IBILE-Hub is a 
digital platform
 developed (by LIRS) for the ease of enumeration and collection of taxes 
                                                        from informal sector businesses (e.g Trade artisans and market traders).
What does IBILE mean?
IBILE represents the five divisions of Lagos State:
•	
I
 – Ikorodu
•	
B
 – Badagry
•	
I
 – Ikeja
•	
L
 – Lagos
•	
E
 – Epe
When did IBILE-Hub start operation?
It went live on 
October 5, 2020.
Within the LIRS structure, what are the constituent parts that make up IBILE?
 •	Lagos 1 (Island)
 •	Lagos 2 (Mainland)
 •	Ikeja 1 & 2
 •	Badagry 1 & 2
 •	Ikorodu 1 & 2
 •	Epe 1 & 2
I paid ₦20,100 tax as a taxpayer in the informal sector and was asked to pay more for my building plan approval. Is this not a double taxation?
No.
The 
₦20,100
 paid is a presumptive tax. Applying for building approval implies your income is above the presumptive tax level. Thus, you will be assessed on your aggregate income (income from all sources) 
                                                        which is to be disclosed by you. Failure to accurately disclose your income from all sources will result in the application of a 
deemed income
 by LIRS, this is in line with the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA). 
                                                        The presumptive tax paid will be considered appropriately in the computation of any additional assessment raised by LIRS.
I belong to the informal sector and I have more than one shop with workers. Do my workers also have to pay tax?
Yes.
If their salary exceeds the zero-tax rate threshold. As an employer, you must deduct income tax at the point of payment, remit it to the Relevant Tax Authority 
by the 10th of the following month
, and file an annual return on 
                                                        all emoluments paid to employees (zero-rated or not) on or before 31st January for the preceding year.
NOTE:
 Regardless of income level or prior PAYE deductions, 
every employee must file their individual annual income tax return
, in line with 
Section 24(f) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and Section (13) of NTAA 2025
.
The local government collects market dues, and LIRS also asks for tax. Is this not a double taxation?
No.
Under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) and the Nigeria Tax Act (NTA), each tier of government has taxes, levies, fees, fines and charges which they are authorized to collect. Thus, it is not double taxation.
What is withholding tax?
 Withholding Tax (WHT) is a specified amount deducted at source from payments accruing or made to individuals or corporate entities in respect of income 
                                                        earned from services rendered, goods supplied or from investment activities. It also includes deductions made from employment income under the Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE) scheme. 
                                                        The deducted amount is remitted to the Relevant Tax Authority in accordance with the provisions of the 
Deduction at Source (Withholding) Tax Regulations 2024, the Nigeria 
                                                        Tax Act (NTA) 2025 and Nigeria Tax Administration Act (NTAA) 2025
.
Is Withholding Tax another form of Tax?
No, it is not another form of tax. Rather, it is an 
advance payment of tax
, as the amount deducted at source can be set off against subsequent tax liability payable by the beneficiary/taxpayer.
Do I have a duty to deduct and remit withholding taxes?
Yes. Anyone who engages the services of and/or makes payment to, an individual or corporate entity is regarded as a 
collecting agent of the Government
. Whenever you or your organisation pay an individual or company 
                                                        for any of the items listed under Question 4 below, the appropriate withholding tax must be deducted and remitted to the Relevant Tax Authority (Lagos State Internal Revenue Service or Nigeria Revenue Service) as applicable. 
What are the services/payments on which withholding taxes must be deducted?
 Withholding Tax must be deducted from payments due to corporate bodies and individuals in respect of the following: Rent, Commission, Management/Professional/Consultancy Services, Technical Services, Colocation and Telecommunication 
                                                        Services, Interest, Dividend, Directors’ Fees, Contracts for Services or Supplies, Royalty, Entertainers’ and Sportspersons’ Fees, Building/Construction, and Winnings. 
What are the applicable rates for WHT deductions?
S/N
TRANSACTIONS
CORPORATE RECIPIENTS
(Resident)
CORPORATE RECIPIENTS
(Non-Resident)
NON-CORPORATE RECIPIENTS
(Resident)
NON-CORPORATE RECIPIENTS
(Non-Resident)
REMARKS
1
Dividend, Interest
10%
10%
10%
10%
Rates as specified in the law
2
Royalty
10%
10%
5%
5%
Rates as specified in the law
3
Rent, Hire or Lease
10%
10%
10%
10%
Rates as specified in the law
4
Commission, Consultancy, Technical, Management, and Professional Fees
5%
10%
5%
10%
Higher rate for non- residents to serve as final tax
5
Supply of goods or materials other than by the manufacturer or producer
2%
N/A
2%
N/A
Simplified description and reduced rate to address low margin
6
Co-location and Telecommunication Tower Services
2%
5%
2%
5%
Lower rate to reflect low industry margins
7
Supply or rendering of services other than those specifically listed in this schedule
2%
5%
2%
5%
Simplified description and reduced rates
8
Construction of road, bridges, building and power plants
2%
5%
2%
5%
Further rates reduction to reflect lower margin
9
Any other form of construction and related activities
5%
10%
5%
10%
Amount due from non-resident is final
10
Brokerage Fee
5%
10%
5%
10%
Subject to Para 10(1)(l)
11
Directors' Fees
N/A
N/A
15%
20%
Rates reflect marginal PIT rate for directors
12
Compensation for loss of employment
N/A
N/A
10%
10%
Section 50 of the Nigeria Tax Act 2025
13
Entertainers and sportspersons
N/A
15%
N/A
15%
Applies on amounts earned in Nigeria
14
Winnings from lottery, gaming, reality shows, etc
N/A
N/A
5%
15%
With effect from 1 January 2025
To which Revenue Authority do I remit withholding taxes deducted from individuals or corporate bodies?
 Withholding tax deducted from payments due to 
individuals and business names
 is payable to the 
                                                        State Internal Revenue Service of the State where the recipient is resident.
Withholding tax deducted from payments due to 
corporate entities
, or from non-resident individuals 
                                                        and corporate entities, is payable to the Nigeria Revenue Service (NRS).
What is the currency of deduction and remittance of Withholding Taxes?
 The currency in which tax is to be deducted and remitted to the Relevant Tax Authority must be the same 
currency in which 
                                                        the transaction was conducted
. Where a transaction is carried out in a foreign currency, the withholding tax should be deducted 
                                                        in that foreign currency and remitted accordingly. However, the Revenue Authority may, at its discretion, allow for the payment 
                                                        to be converted at the prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria exchange rate and remitted in the local currency.
When is the remittance date for deducted withholding taxes?
 Taxes withheld from payments to individuals and corporate bodies must be remitted within the statutory timelines.  
•	Where the payment is due to a State Internal Revenue Service, remittance for Capital Gains Tax and Pay-As-You-Earn 
                                                        must be made not later than the 10th day of the following month, while all other WHT deductions must be remitted 
not later 
                                                        than the 30th day of the month following the month of payment
.
•	Where the payment is due to the Nigeria Revenue Service, the amount deducted at source must be remitted not later than the 
                                                        21st day of the month following the month of payment.
NOTE:
 The due date for withholding tax begins to run from the 
earlier of the date the amount was deducted or the date the obligation to deduct arose
.
Is there any penalty for failure to deduct and/or remit withholding taxes?
 Yes. Collecting agents who fail to deduct withholding tax are liable to 
an administrative penalty of 40%
 of the amount not deducted, pursuant to Section (105) of the Nigeria Tax Administration Act 
                                                        (NTAA) 2025.
Furthermore, any person or corporate body that fails to remit withholding tax to the relevant tax authority within the stipulated time is liable to pay:
•	the 
full amount
 deducted, collected, or withheld but not remitted;
•	an 
administrative penalty of 10%
 per annum of the tax deducted, collected, or withheld but not remitted; and
•	
interest
 at the prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) monetary policy rate.
In addition, upon conviction, such a person/entity is liable to a 
term of imprisonment not exceeding three years
, or a fine of not less than the principal amount due plus a penalty not exceeding 50% of the sum, or both, 
                                                        in accordance with Section (107) of the NTAA.
I am told withholding taxes on some payments are final tax. What does this imply?
 The implication is that such portion of the taxable person’s income cannot be subjected to further taxes in the hands of the recipient beyond the withholding taxes earlier deducted. 
What are the payments in respect of which withholding taxes are final?
                                                            For residents, withholding tax on 
dividends distributed by a Nigerian company and interest on short-term securities and corporate bonds
 represents final tax on these incomes.
 Withholding tax deducted on dividends, interest, rent, royalty, directors’ fees, and payments to entertainers and sportspersons, paid on behalf of individuals or corporate entities not resident in Nigeria, is deemed as final tax.
What is the difference between Withholding Tax and Value Added Tax (VAT)? 
                                                            Withholding Tax is a 
prepayment of income tax
; it is not a separate tax but an advance payment. Amounts withheld and remitted can later be used to offset the taxpayer’s final income tax liability. VAT, however, is a 
consumption tax
                                                            charged on the supply of goods and services, except those exempted, and cannot be set off against any income tax liability.
 Withholding Tax is paid to the relevant tax authority (State or Federal) depending on whether the taxpayer is an individual or a corporate body. VAT, on the other hand, is paid only to the Nigeria Revenue Service.
The main operational difference is that 
WHT is deducted from income
, while 
VAT is added to the invoiced value
 of goods and services.
How do I claim withholding taxes deducted from my income?
 A person who makes a deduction must, upon remittance to the relevant authority, 
issue a receipt for the tax so deducted
 in the prescribed format. The beneficiary of the deduction (taxpayer) is expected to submit this receipt/credit note to 
                                                        the relevant tax authority as evidence of the amount deducted to claim the corresponding tax credit.
Once the taxpayer’s income from all sources has been assessed and the tax due is determined, the amount of ,
withholding tax paid at source
 will be 
set off against the tax due
 to arrive at the net tax payable.
NOTE: Pursuant to Section 8 of the Deduction at Source (WHT) Regulations 2024
, where a receipt (in the prescribed format) is issued for any amount deducted but not yet remitted, the beneficiary will 
still be credited
 by the relevant tax authority, and the amount 
                                                        unremitted shall be treated as the 
tax liability of the person who made the deduction
 and shall be recoverable with applicable penalties and interest.
													LIRS is the operational arm of the Lagos State Government responsible for the collection of taxes and other revenues.
											Follow us on
Quick Links
Privacy Notice
Tax Information
News
About Us
Contact Us
Whistleblow
Subscribe
	                                                Stay in the know. Join our mailing list
Subscription Successful
Error Occurred
Submit
Pay your tax
Locate Us
Copyright 2026 LIRS
toggle menu
Tax Information
Tax Types
Personal income tax
Pay as you earn
Direct assessment
-->
Tax Systems
System of Tax
Tax Administration
Tax Statistics
Tax Collection
Lagos State Internal Revenue Service
Local Government
Federal Government
-->
Tax Legislations
Revenue Code
Agency Code
Registration Steps
NTAA
News
3 New
-->
Publications
FAQ
About Us
Gallery
Fiscalization for HORCT
Contact Us
-->
0700-2255-5477
Follow us
Self Assessment
-->
Calculate Tax
-->
Calculate Tax
 Calculate Tax 
